I want to lift verse 43 again in your hearing, yet it shall not be so among you, but whoever desires to become great among you shall be a servant, amen.
I want to preach on this third Sunday in January as you shall pray for and with me from the topic, what makes you great?
Lord, bless your word, bless your preacher.
Give us ears to hear.
Holy Spirit, have your way.
Draw, compel, encourage.
In Jesus' name, amen.
What makes you great?
The Bible is full of questions.
Anyone and everyone who has spent time reading, immersing themselves in the Word of God has encountered the many questions we find raised from Genesis to Revelation.
Genesis to Revelation, we encounter, it seems to be question after question.
What shall it profit a man to gain the whole world but lose his soul?
If God be for us, who can be against us?
Is anything too hard
for the Lord, why do the wicked prosper?
Why do you doubt?
The Bible is full of questions.
According to this New Testament text, as Jesus interacts with two of his disciples, the sons of Zebedee,
James and John, once again, we encounter a question.
James and John are asking a question of Jesus concerning seats in his kingdom.
According to the text, James and John are requesting to sit
beside Jesus on his right and left when he comes into his kingdom.
And having asked this question, James and John believe that greatness is associated with proximity and access to Jesus.
If we are able to sit on his right
and left, then we won't be average mediocre or ordinary, but rather we will be great, superior, and the catch me out.
According to the text, James and John, who have walked and talked with Jesus, misunderstand and misconscrew
what it means to be great.
They've walked and talked with Jesus, but James and John watched Apple have a carnal immature, superficial, worldly understanding of what it means to be great.
While they are disciples of Jesus,
By raising this question, you would think they were not disciples of Jesus, but rather they were just worldly individuals in need of attention.
Text says they want to sit beside Jesus because they are associating seats with greatness.
Tragically, unfortunately, even in the body of Christ called church, 2,000 years later, we sometimes misunderstand, misinterpret, and misconscrew greatness.
Can I preach on this Sunday morning?
The world, amen, ought not define our
understanding of greatness.
We are citizens of the kingdom.
We are disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ.
We are blood bought fire baptized spirit field empowered by the Holy Ghost.
We ought to take our cues of greatness from none other than our Savior and Lord Jesus Christ.
But according to the world, the world has a different understanding of greatness.
According to the world, greatness is based upon association and affiliation.
According to the world, greatness is based upon achievement and accoutrements.
According to the world, greatness is based upon pomp and position.
According to the world greatness is based upon power and popularity.
According to the world greatness is based upon the clothes we wear and the cars we drive.
According to the world greatness is based upon titles and trinkets.
According to the world greatness is based upon names and notoriety.
According to the world greatness is based upon rank
and recognition according to the world greatness is based upon fame and followers according to the world greatness is based upon likes and luxury according to the world greatness is based upon stuff and style credentials and connections but that's not what Jesus says about greatness according to this text
Jesus in the eyes of the kingdom, greatness is based upon service.
Can I preach this Sunday morning?
Watch chapel as we celebrate the life and legacy of Dr. King.
This year we ought to renew our commitment to the ethic of service.
If we're really going to be a great church, if you're really going to be a great family, if you're going to be a great individual, not in the eyes of the news and observer, not in the eyes of the Raleigh Metroplex, great not in the eyes of the USA today, the New York Times, but great in the eyes of Jesus Christ, we must commit ourselves to being servants of the Most High.
Come on, help me preach this word on this Sunday morning.
And anybody and everybody can be great because anybody and everybody can serve.
Do I have a witness in here?
You don't need a PhD in nuclear physics to serve.
You don't need a JD from Harvard University to serve.
You don't need to be recognized to serve.
If you got hands, you can serve.
If you got time, you can serve.
If you got abilities, you can serve.
If you are anointed, you can serve.
If you got talent, you can serve.
If you got faith, you can serve.
If you got wisdom, you can serve.
If you can worship, you can serve.
If you got gifts, you can serve.
If you got experience, you can serve.
If you got praise, you can serve.
If you got imagination, you can serve.
If you got feet, you can serve.
If you got hands, you can serve.
If you got a mouth, you can serve.
Can I preach on this Sunday morning with all that God gives you?
We can use it to serve.
Ain't no good excuse not to serve because any and everybody who is made in the image of Almighty God who can lift your hands, who can clap your hands, who can sing, who can shout, who can praise, who can help, can serve.
What makes you great?
Not because of how handsome you are, not because of how pretty you are, not because of your credentials, not because of whose arm you're on.
We become great because of our commitment to service.
And as we embrace the ethic of service watch chapel, we have the capacity to become great in the eyes of our Savior and Lord Jesus Christ because Jesus, according to this text, redefines what it means to be great.
And the question is not just what it means to be great, but the question is how can and should I serve?
Watch, Apple, we ought to serve compassionately.
Compassion ought to be the motivation behind why we serve.
We don't serve because we are condescending, but we serve because we are compassionate.
We don't serve because we're better than somebody else, but we serve because our heart ought to be pricked with compassion.
December 1, 1955 Rosa Parks, a seamstress, decided not to get out of her seat on a bus in Montgomery, Alabama, not because she was better, not because she was superior, but because of compassion towards people that looked like her who had to live under the indignity of racism in the American South.
Martin King, who had an earned PhD from Boston University, made up in his mind he was going to be the leader of the Montgomery Bus Boycott, not because he was apathetic, not because he was condescending, but because of his compassion towards people who suffered under the indignity of American racism.
And while racism is still real,
We ought to be motivated not because of apathy, but we ought to be motivated because of compassion.
As we serve locally, nationally, globally, even in the party of Christ card church, compassion ought to motivate our service.
And every believer ought to have a heart of compassion.
When we see people suffering,
That ought to lead us to serve.
When we encounter people who have less than you and I, that ought to motivate us to serve.
When we see people in these United States of America as if they are living in third world countries, that ought to motivate us to serve.
When you see the rich, wealthy minority, oppressing the majority, that ought to motivate us to serve.
When they are people, amen, in the richest country, in the republic, who go to bed without food, without clothes, without shelter, that ought to motivate us to serve.
Compassion ought to motivate us to serve.
And whenever we serve, we ought to serve with compassion.
Not just compassion, watch job.
I'm not gonna preach too long on this Sunday morning, but we ought to serve with sincerity.
Help me preach this.
If you read this text in Mark chapter 10, James and John are not concerned about sincerity.
James and John are concerned about attention.
If I can sit beside Jesus,
then that's going to be a feather in my cap.
If I can sit beside Jesus, people will wonder how great and good I really am.
If I can sit close to Jesus, then I will be somebody.
Can I preach this?
But we don't serve because we want attention.
Help me preach this.
We don't serve because we want somebody to call our name.
We don't serve because we want our name on a building.
We don't serve because we want our name to be recognized, but we ought to serve with sincerity.
If we're only serving to get attention, if we're only serving because we want somebody to recognize how gifted we are,
If we're only serving to get close to somebody, then we ought to rethink why we are serving.
Can I preach this?
But everybody who serves ought to serve with the right motivation, and the right motivation is the glory of God.
If it ain't about the glory of Almighty God, if it ain't gonna point to Jesus, if it ain't gonna make God look better, if it ain't gonna bless somebody, amen somebody, then we ought to rethink why we are serving.
You don't serve just to get attention.
You don't serve just so somebody will recognize how gifted you are.
You don't serve just so somebody will call your name if we are only serving for the superficial, for the petty, for the small, for recognition, for rank that we need to rethink why we serve.
They are countless people who serve every day who get no recognition.
Come on, help me preach this.
And then there are some people, amen, who got to put their names on stuff.
There are some people who are willing to receive awards from other people who have earned it.
There are some people
who only do something because they want something from it.
That's not the way of the kingdom.
Nor is that the way of Jesus.
Can I preach on this Sunday morning?
You can give a glass of water to somebody and be blessed.
You can smile at somebody and be blessed.
It ought not require
Pop and circumstance, but we ought to serve with sincerity.
Sincerity says, I don't need attention.
I don't need the spotlights.
I don't need my name in lights, but I'm going to do it for no other reason but the glory of God and to be used by God.
We ought to serve compassionately
We ought to serve sincerely, and we ought to serve thankfully.
Help me close.
Whatever God chooses to use us, we ought to be grateful and thankful that we are on the Lord's program.
I know sometimes we think we are the catch me out.
We think that it can't go on without us.
We think that nobody can sing it like we can sing it.
Nobody can preach it like we can preach it.
Nobody can do it like we can do it.
But if the Lord ever uses you, you ought to be grateful to be used by God.
I wish I had a witness on this Sunday morning.
I don't care how God uses you, when God uses you, where God uses you, if God uses you in public or in private, you ought to thank God for being used.
If God uses you in the church or in the community, you ought to thank God that God uses you.
Do I have a witness on this Sunday morning?
However God, if God uses you in Haiti, if God uses you in a homeschool, you want to thank God for being used by God.
If God uses you in watch chapel, if God uses you somewhere else, you want to thank God for God using him.
God doesn't have to use us.
God can use somebody else.
We ain't the only person who can be used.
We ain't the only church that can serve.
You ain't the only person who can sing.
You ain't the only person who can usher.
You ain't the only person who can preach.
You ain't the only person who can lead.
But God can use any and everybody.
But when God uses you,
You ought to be used to the glory of God.
Do it with an attitude of gratitude and thank God that you used.
Thank God for using me.
Thank God for blessing me to be a blessing.
Thank God for using me to preach the gospel.
Thank God for me to use and me to sing to His glory.
Thank God for using me however God uses me.
Because if I keep being used, if I keep my hand on the plow, if I keep my mind right, if I keep my attitude right, one day when this life is over, God will say those words well done.
Good and faithful servant, you've been faithful over a few things.
Now come be ruler over many, and until that time, keep on serving, keep on preaching, keep on ushering, keep on blessing, keep on tithing, keep on giving, keep on telling the good news.
And God will be glorified, and will be pleased.
Hallelujah.
Just thank God for being a servant.
When we get to heaven, when we stand before the throne, understand God ain't going to be concerned about some of the stuff we concerned about.
God ain't looking at how many likes you had.
God ain't looking at how many followers we had on social media.
God is looking at what we did with what God gave us.
What makes you great?
Service.
Somebody right now, my brother, my sister, you're here.
You don't have a church home.
You're not yet saved.
I'm inviting you to come from wherever you are, my brother, my sister, to experience the love of God and sign up for Team Jesus.
You don't yet have a church home.
I'm extending the invitation to you, my brother, my sister, for you to join Team Jesus.
You're not a servant of the kingdom yet.
You serve in other places, but our first service ought to be to God.
To whom much is given, much is required.
If God has given you a lot, God expects something from you.
God has blessed you.
God has blessed us to be a blessing.
You ain't just blessed so you can look good.
You bless so you can be a blessing to somebody else.
I'm talking to your brother.
I'm talking to your sister.
You're here today.
You're not safe.
You don't have a church on.
I want you to walk down the aisle from wherever you are right now to accept Jesus Christ and or unite with watch chapel.
I'm speaking to you.
The Holy Spirit is nudging you right now.
I want you to respond to the Holy Ghost and accept Jesus as your Savior and or unite with watch chapel, missionary Baptist Church.
Lord, draw somebody who needs a Savior.
Draw somebody who needs a church home.
Touch their feet right now.
Somebody's online virtual.
Touch them right now.
Have your way, God.
In Jesus' name, amen.
Watch that, but repeat after me, God, I thank you for the gift of salvation.
I admit that I'm a sinner.
I believe that Jesus Christ died for me and was resurrected on the third day for the salvation of my sins.
I confess Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord of my life.
And I'm going to do what He tells me to do so I can be who He wants me to be.
That's the first time you've prayed that prayer.
I want you to walk forward.
If you prayed that prayer before, you digest it, you comprehend it, be seated.
Amen, watch, chapel.
We thank God for everybody who is present today.
Once again, we celebrate 150 years as a church.
Next Sunday is Victory Sunday in the life of Watch Chapel.
Reverend Dr. Marcus Jerkins of the New Pilgrim Baptist Church, Birmingham, Alabama will be our guest preacher.
Gospel artist Anthony Brown will be our guest psalmist.
We'll wrap up our season of fasting and prayer on next Saturday.
We'll see you on Wednesday night.
Amen.
He joining?
All right, praise the Lord.
Reverend Robinson, okay.
All right, let's thank God for this family who has come to unite with watch chapel, amen.
Let's stand to our feet.
May the grace of our Lord and Savior, the love of God,
fellowship of the Holy Spirit.
Rest, rule that abide with us until we shall meet again.
People of God said amen.
Amen.
some help in the house.